Soon after Bitcoin's creation, everyone saw its potential and attempted to duplicate or enhance the technology.

Different forks of the same code began to arise, and several alternative blockchains were constructed from the ground up, attempting to fix some of bitcoin's biggest recognized issues:  
- scalability  
- privacy  
- energy consumption  (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RzGQkYQ-rp8 , https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-RdDmRlCbRE)

Ethereum is the most well-known Bitcoin successor.  
Vitalik Buterin developed Ethereum, an open-source blockchain, in 2013.  

The key characteristic of Ethereum is that it enables the execution of decentralized applications (DApps).  
It enables the execution of these apps by implementing an EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) capable of running smart contracts, which are essentially software programs written for the blockchain.  

Ethereum smart contracts, like bitcoin transactions, are immutable and deterministic, which means they can be checked by each miner and produce the same outcome every time.  

The Ethereum network is designed to be quicker than Bitcoin, with an average block time of 12 to 14 seconds compared to Bitcoin's block time of 10 minutes.  

This fast network enabled the growth of a diverse range of financial services that fall under the category of DeFi (Decentralized Finance), allowing for the supply of common financial services without the need of financial intermediaries.  

Ether is the main currency in Ethereum and it is used to pay for transactions in ethereum.  
There are main common denominations for Ether.
1 ETH corresponds to:
- 1 Quintillion WEI ( 1.000.000.000.000.000.000 )
- 1 Quadrillion KWEI ( 1.000.000.000.000.000 )
- 1 Trillion MWEI ( 1.000.000.000.000 )
- 1 Billion GWEI
- 1 Million Szabo
and so on..  

When talking about ethereum we can encounter the term Ethereum Classic ( ETC ), that is the original Ethereum blockchain before the DAO Hack, a famous hacking maneuver that made the Ethereum network to split via an hard fork agreed from the community, but not everyone.  

DAO stands for Decentralized Autonomous Organization, and it was a large-scale fundraising organization, however their smart contracts included a weakness that allowed certain hackers to take cash without approval.  

A hard fork occurs when there is a breaking change in the blockchain software and the network of clients can no longer agree on the same protocol, resulting in the formation of a new blockchain.  

The ethereum blockchain has a broad enterprise support and in 2017 the enterprise ethereum alliance was created, including many organizations like:
- Accenture
- FedEx Corporate Services, Inc
- JP Morgan Chase Bank
- Microsoft
- Sberbank of Russia
- VMware
- Web3 Labs
and many more..

Their goal is to build and support the ethereum blockchain.  
Their mission statement states as follows: "We will learn from and build upon the only smart contract supporting blockchain currently running in real-world production – Ethereum – to define enterprise-grade software capable of handling the most complex, highly demanding applications at the speed of business."

The entire ecosystem of DApps is thus based on the concept of smart contracts, which are software written in a prioprietary language called Solidity.  
With a smart contract you can:
- perform data logic
- read or execute other contracts
- send or withdraw ether

Here we introduce the concept of Gas.  
Gas is a unit that defines the limit of operations a smart contract can execute on a given transaction, so the entire network does not waste too much computational power, memory, bandwidth or storage.  
Infact when you want to execute a transaction on the ethereum network you have to pay a gas fee defining a maximum allowed amount of Gwei that will be involved in the transaction.  
The prices of gas is set by the miners based on supply and demand for the computational power of the network needed to process smart contracts.  
If running the transaction we run out of gas, the entire transaction gets rolled back.  

The Ethereum community also introduced many standards for the software programmers to work on.  
They are like interfaces which a custom smart contract must implement.  

Typically, standards are introduced as Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs), which when relate to application-level layer, they become Ethereum Requests for Comments (ERCs).  

Some examples of smart contracts standards are:  
- ERC-20 - Used for generating fungible (interchangeable) tokens, like virtual currencies.
This standard is the most common for creating new tokens and is tipically used in Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs), a concept we will see in a moment
- ERC-721 - Proposes a concept where token holders are able to differentiate between the tokens they hold; this goes back to the idea of non-fungible assets or tokens, commonly called NFTs.  
This standard allows the tokens to represent real-world objects like real-estate objects, intellectual property rights, digital artworks and so on
- ERC-1155 - Is a standard which can contain both fungible and non-fungible assets and solves some scalability issues with ERC-721
- ERC-223 - Improves ERC-20, so that tokens are not lost if they are sent to the wrong wallet/contract

The use of smart contracts led the way to the initial introduction of sophisticated structures based on them, like DAOs or Decentralized Autonomous Organizations, which integrate the governance and business logic rules of an actual organization with people and protocols.  

In a DAO the code is considered the governing entity rather than people or paper contracts.  

Of course, a human curator maintains this code and serves as the community's proposal evaluator.  

DAOs can hire external contractors if they obtain enough feedback from token holders.  

The most well-known DAO initiative is The DAO, which collected 168 million dollars through crowdfunding.  
Unfortunately, as previously stated, this same project was hacked due to a weakness in the DAO code.  

As the notion of DAOs evolves, we may also have DACs, Decentralized Autonomous Corporations, with the primary distinction being that while DAOs are nonprofit, DACs can generate a profit though shares given to participants and to whom they can pay dividends.  

The concept behind DACs is that they can manage a company autonomously without human intervention based on the logic that has been built into them.  

Furthermore, we can progress with the notion of DASs, or Decentralized Autonomous Societies, which are a concept in which a whole society may work on a blockchain with the assistance of several smart contracts and a combination of DAOs and DApps functioning autonomously.  

This concept might involve offering many common government services, such as identity card systems, passports, marriages, and births.   

While this idea might look pretty wild and cyberpunk, it is absolutely feasible on a blockchain.  

We can further expand on the concept of using smart contracts in secondary fields, introducing the concept of DeFi, which stands for Decentralized Finance.  
We briefly mentioned DeFi previously, stating that it includes all the applications that provide financial services in a decentralized manner without a trusted third party.  

Let's dive deep into analyzing the five pillars of decentralized finance:  

Number 1:
Stablecoins are cryptocurrency that match real world assets.  
For example DAI, Tether and USD Coin have their price tied to the united states dollar.  
When you buy one for a dollar, a new one is minted.  
When you withdraw one, a USD coin is burnt.  
They are useful for moving assets around without having to exchange for fiat currency everytime a trade has been made.

Number 2:
Another pillar of DeFi is lending and borrowing.  
Whenever there's one person interested in borrowing money, another one is interested in lending, earning some interest.  

Number 3:
Decentralized exchanges are important too.  
They allow to provide the same service of a traditional exchange, which is matching supply and demand for a given asset, in a decentralized way, with much lower fees.  
Investors provide the money for the traders to trade, earning a portion of the fees.

Number 4:
Insurance companies can be coded as smart contracts.  
For example if a farmer wants to buy crops insurance, the code can automatically give back money to the farmer if the temperature has been too high for 7 days in a row.  
The code connects to the real world to get the daily temperature through some entities called Oracles, which are trusted source for retrieving information.

Number 5:
Margin trading works like real life margin, which is borrowing money for investing, but with less fees and in a more secure way.

I'll now give an overview of some other apps available in the DeFi industry.






Since we've previously introduced ICOs, we can state that ICOs are a mechanism for a business to raise funds for a new concept through crowdsourcing by handing back tokens to investors.  
These tokens are similar to corporation shares in that they allow investors to participate in surveys and decision making.  
They are comparable to initial public offerings (IPOs), except they are based on a cryptocurrency or token.

