# The social consequences
## and the future

Notes:
Let's move over to the last part of the presentation.

The social consequences and the future.  

One of the most concerning issue about Bitcoin and all Proof-of-work based blockchains is their impact on global environment.  

Proof-of-work is similar to bruteforcing a password because it is based on attempting to guess a nonce that would fulfill a hash requirement.

Miners use GPUs to generate millions of hashes per second.
To increase mining performance, a miner setup could be built with more than one GPU.  

As more people entered the mining community, more specialized organizations and hardware were developed to increase their chances of finding the correct hash of a block and being rewarded.
It makes sense for you, the miner, to gather together all of this hardware to generate hashes 24 hours a day, seven days a week in massive server farms.
Even if the electric bill is high, the earnings are higher due to the cryptocurrency's rising price.

Bitcoin is claimed to require approximately 127 terawatt-hours of electricity per year, which is comparable to Argentina's energy consumption.

Because it is designed similarly to digital gold, it makes more sense to compare its energy usage to that of gold mining, which is reported to require roughly 240 terawatt-hours per year.

Despite the fact that many mining farms in China utilize fossil-fuel-derived electricity, many other farms use renewable energy, and the mining business is actually encouraging innovation in the green energy sector because miners migrate to where the power is cheaper.  

However, I believe that all of these comparisons, pros and cons, are irrelevant since the technology itself may be improved to achieve its goals without consuming such a large amount of energy.  

**continue from here**

For these reasons A LOT of new consensus protocol have been invented.

Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dogecoin, and Litecoin are the most influential coins that still use proof of work.
However, Ethereum will transition to the proof-of-stake consensus protocol next year.

Proof of stake, by the way, is a consensus mechanism that eliminates the need to generate a hash starting with a fixed number of 0 bits for the block.
With this technique, cryptocurrency owners can stake their currencies, granting them the ability to validate new blocks and transactions.
Misbehavior is discouraged by slashing the stake whenever a validation appears to be fraudulent.  

Many blockchains are now rejecting proof of work as a consensus mechanism due to its environmental impact, and some blockchains like Algorand are even carbon-negative. That is, they aim for very low power usage while also investing in giving back funds to environmental initiatives.

The next breakthroughs will come from the evolution of the protocol itself, where it is critical to overcome the trilemma problem.  

According to the blockchain trilemma problem, a blockchain cannot be quick, secure, and decentralized all at the same time.  

Silvio Micali, an Italian professor at MIT and winner of the Turing Prize, the RSA Prize, and the Godel Prize, claims to have addressed this problem with Algorand's "delegated proof of stake" consensus protocol.  
Every time a block needs to be added to the chain, the delegated proof of stake protocol proclaims a fully democratic and entirely random block-verification committee.  

Another important impediment for blockchain adoption at scale is legislation.  
Currently, the majority of governments are not prepared to host the establishment of blockchain enterprises or the trade of cryptoassets.  
As a result, innovation and capital are fleeing the country and relocating to countries where laws governing blockchain development have already been enacted, such as the Republic of Singapore.  

In Italy, we don't even know how to declare and pay taxes on crypto-assets.  

We already saw this scenario with the advent of the Internet, but it appears that history is doomed to repeat itself.  

The blockchain technology will also benefit from the growing trend of metaverse which is gaining a lot of traction since lots of companies are investing in it, along with AR and VR hardware.  