## Blockchain: the origins

<ul class="text-xs">
    <li>
        1982: David Chaum (cryptographer) proposal of a blockchain-like protocol and start of Digicash (company) and eCash (product)
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        1991: Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta proposed a system for preventing tampering of timestamps 
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        1992: Haber, Stornetta and Dave Bayer added Merkle Trees to the previous design for better efficiency 
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        1997: Adam Back created a proof-of-work system to limit email spamming and DDoS attacks by the name Hashcash 
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        1998: Wei Dai publishes a paper describing a new anonymous, distributed and decentralized currency called B-Money
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        1998: Nick Szabo proposed his version of a digital currency called Bit Gold (never implemented)
    </li>
    <li class="fragment">
        2008: Satoshi Nakamoto published a whitepaper on The Cryptography Mailing list presenting Bitcoin to the world
    </li>
</ul>

Notes:  
So, what are the foundations upon which Bitcoin was created?  

We could say everything started when public key cryptography appeared in the wild, thanks to a contribution of Diffie, Hellman and Merkle, but we will skip to the events that marked the creation of Bitcoin specifically.  

Starting from the late 1970s, a cryptographer named David Chaum started making outstanding contributions to privacy technology using cryptography in many areas.  
In his thesis published in 1982 proposed the concept of decentralization in computer systems "Computer Systems Established, Maintained, and Trusted by Mutually Suspicious Groups", where a blockchain-like protocol was described,
and in that year he published "Blind Signatures for Untraceable payments" in which he invented the core algorithm of eCash, an anonymous cryptographic electronic money, realized through his corporation named Digicash.  
Sadly Digicash didn't make to convince lots of banks to use its electronic money for payments, so 10 years later in 1998 the company declared bankruptcy.  

In 1991 Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta proposed a system for preventing tampering of timestamps in a distributed system.  
Together with Dave Bayer next year they published another paper to improve the efficiency of digital time-stamping.  
This work introduced the idea of a chain of hashes to create a total order of commitments to a dynamically growing set of documents.

Fast forward to 1997 Adam Back created a proof-of-work system to limit email spamming named Hashcash.  
Its mining algorithm was used as a foundation of Bitcoin and other blockchains.  

In 1998 Wei Dai published a paper describing a new anonymous, distributed and decentralized virtual currency called B-Money and in the same year Nick Szabo proposed his version called Bit Gold, but it was never implemented.

Many years later, in 2008, a person or a group of people which goes by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto published a whitepaper in a cryptography mailing list talking about Bitcoin, a p2p electronic cash system that was meant to be distributed and decentralized.  
In this paper Satoshi described a network of peers capable of sending online payments without going through a financial institution.  
Here he used the concepts of digital signatures, proof-of-work and hash-based chaining to make the network create a chain of records that cannot be changed without redoing the proof-of-work.  
We will get on what proof-of-work means in a second.