# Blockchain and the economy

Notes:
A blockchain is a system for recording information, a distributed database that makes difficult or impossible to change a previously stored information.  
That's why we say that blockchain is immutable: we can add information to it, but we cannot change previous data.  

It promises a safe, peer-to-peer mechanism for information verification.  

While the technology allows the tracking of digital curriences and cryptocurriences, its purpose goes beyond cryptocurrency.  

Many sectors have been affected by the raise of this new technology:
- insurance
- real estate
- crowdfunding
- data management
- iot

Since blockchain technology also claims to speed up and reduce the cost of transactions and boost financial inclusion, it started being used from individual in emerging economies where there are not standard banks.

Furthermore, with blockchain we can imagine a world in which contracts are embedded in digital code and stored in this transparent and shared database.  

The agreeements between parties are based on these contracts and as we will see, there are already lots of application in the form of DeFi, that is decentralized finance.

The truth is that since the blockchain uses cryptocurrencies to function, the cryptocurrencies have gained their intrinsic value, and formed a new type of economy based on the speculation of the value of these **digital assets**.  

Lots of cryptocurrency brokers or **exchanges** are born since the raise of Bitcoin, some examples are:
- Binance
- Coinbase
- Crypto.com

Some of them even launched their own cryptocurrencies.

Here we are talking of a market of almost 2.5 trillion euros were the major crypto assets are detained by Bitcoin, Ethereum, Binance Coin and Tether, as of now.  

Since the crypto market is too much volatile, some coins have created with the purpose of having the same value of the fiat money, like tether USD: one USDT is equal to one USD.

As of today, cryptocurrency trading has not been included in traditional financial sectors like ETFs directly, only as a byproduct of them:  
the first Bitcoin ETF has been announced and approved by the SEC in October 2021, and it does not literally owns Bitcoins, but it holds Bitcoin futures based on another exchange.  

This totally exposes the fluctuation of the price of this ETF to the strategical decision of the managers of the fund.  

Apparently we will not see a pure Bitcoin ETF soon in the stable stock exchange market.  

But the revolution is in progress:  
lots of influential people started investing in cryptocurrencies and started moving a huge amount of assets on cryptocurrencies.  

One of them is Michael Saylor, that in July 2020 decided to buy and hold Bitcoin instead of holding cash, due to the upcoming hard inflation that would have caused the value of the stored cash to drop substantially.  

Many people -infact- use cryptocurrency as a sort of protection against the roaring inflation due to the maneuvers of the Central Bank.

The result is that its company, MicroStrategy has become a kind of Bitcoin proxy investment for some investors, and the company stocks gained traction fast going from 120 dollars to 720 dollars in a year and half. 

Another influent person is Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla, SpaceX and some other big companies, that has become the most influential character in the crypto environment.  

He usually share thoughts and comments on Twitter, indirectly implying assets movements toward a specific crypto asset, that result in the price increase of the same.  

In the beginning of 2021 Musk said that Tesla invested 1.5 billions in Bitcoin and they would start to accept Bitcoin as a form of payment.  
This resulted in a huge price spike in BTC price.  
A few months later he changed his mind saying that they were concerned about the impact on the rapid increasing of the use of fossil fuels for Bitcoin mining and transactions and that Tesla would not accept Bitcoin anymore.  
Of course the price of Bitcoin dropped.  

He instead asked if anyone would have liked to have a previously existing meme-cryptocurrency called Dogecoin as a payment for Tesla, and that resulted too in an increase of the price of Dogecoin, which was a cryptocurrency created as a joke from two software engineers, Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer.  

As you can see the crypto currency market evaluation is subject to a lot of fluctuation due to this hype-culture which tends to keep the standard investor away from it, due to its volatile and totally speculative nature.  

But you may start to think outside the box and surf this new wave, carefully, trying not to drawn beaneath it, as many people - including me - already do.  

The already existing rules of the technical analysis work pretty well, even though the fundamental analysis could not be performed, since there's no real-world value behind a cryptocurrency, but the value is totally based on the ratio between supply and demand.  

The new instruments for gaining some insights of the prices of the cryptocurrencies and outrun the market, are the socials, the influential words of a small amount of people and the trends of the mass driven by hype, but also it seems that the transition to a broader view of the economic system is inevitable, and the most influential cryptoassets are going to increase in value over time.
  
To summarize, cryptocurrency has the potential to be the cornerstone of a better monetary system that allows individuals greater control over their possessions, and it appears that it is becoming more widely accepted as time goes on.